
# Multivariate Time Series Annotator



## Overview
The goal of this project is to develop an executable non-web application tool that allows the algorithms team at Tandem Diabetes Care to visualize and annotate data related to insulin infusion therapy. The algorithms team at Tandem Diabetes Care needs a tool that can help them visualize and annotate large amounts of data generated by the wearable insulin pumps. It is important to note that this tool can be used by anyone who is in need of a data visualization tool, but was made to meet the needs of the algorithm engineers at Tandem.

The Multivariate Time Series Annotator tool features a user-friendly interface that enables users to upload and visualize data in a CSV or HDF5 format. The tool was developed using Java as the main goal was to develop a tool that is able to handle large amounts of data while remaining responsive. It was developed by using the JFreeChart framework. Users are able to add up to 6 resizable charts, each which can have an unlimited amount of series. This tool is able to visualize data in a line chart, step chart and scatter plot. It also allows users to annotate the data with shapes and/or text comments, providing better context for the data. Users are able to sync multiple charts. It also allows users to export their annotations in a CSV format which is easy to understand as well as being able to import those annotations back into the application. 

## Supported Platforms
This application is cross-platform for Windows and MacOS.
## Installation

This application is bundled with the JDK environment as well as all the dependencies needed so there is no need for users to download Java into their local computers.

1. MacOS (Choose your appropriate chip installer)
- Apple Chip: [link here](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1AfKzyaGZc4A0kmKQ0qHNzQ2Fm1_dJhek)
- INTEL chip: [link here](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1AfKzyaGZc4A0kmKQ0qHNzQ2Fm1_dJhek)
    
    Steps to install:
    
    1. Open the .dmg installer
    2. Go to System Preferences -> Privacy & Security
    3. Security -> Allow applications downloaded from -> App store and identified developers
    4. "Multivaria...Installer was blocked from use because it is not from an identified developer.
    5. Click the Open Anyway button.
    6. Continue with normal installation.
2. Windows
- [link here](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1AfKzyaGZc4A0kmKQ0qHNzQ2Fm1_dJhek)
## Features

- Importing CSV/HDF5 files
- Plotting imported data (line charts, step charts, scatter plot)
- Supports up to 6 different charts
- Each chart can hold unlimited series
- Zooming in and out of series
- Panning through series
- Adding and editing annotations (text, shapes, lines)
- Highlighting regions of data
- Syncing of multiple charts
- Exporting and importing annotations (CSV files)
- Label (chart name, axis) customization


## User Manual
[User manual](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1n2E4PnDVlMtbjsvG6Zwc5rDzUJ3DicUIKO46xuo-XiE/edit?usp=sharing)
